---
title: Trials of Yarbil | Devblog 0
layout: post
categories: [Devlog]
tags: [devlog]
description: "An introduction to my game Trials of Yarbil"
customexcerpt: "What is Trials of Yarbil? Why Trials of Yarbil?"
---

Hello! Welcome to this really bad devblog. See the [video devlog]().

For the past 10 months or so, I have been working on Trials of Yarbil (TOY). It's this top-down fast-paced roguelike where you player as a samurai. Nothing too special or out of the ordinary. My goal with this project is to really get a full cycle of development through and see what the process is like. I've released a few games already (they're on [itch.io](https://0megq.itch.io)), but never released something to Steam. TOY is planned to release on [Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/3320710/Trials_of_Yarbil/) by the end of Summer this year (_fingers crossed_).

This past week, I have been doing housekeeping reorganizing code and tidying everything up so I can add menus to the game. To be honest, it's been a little rough and I don't think by tidying has left me too much better where I started, but hopefully it should all work out soon. As for menus I got a very (and I mean _very_. It doesn't even have buttons) basic main menu done. This should help me as I add more to the menus.

My plan for the next week is to create the main menu and pause menus with some basic buttons and as I go along clean up the code. Not too exciting I know, but hopefully this should set me up to create a better UX and everything.

I also recently, did a massive game redesign. Originally, TOY was inspired by Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild's combat mechanics, but trying to copy that combat was just too much. I had so many features planned and there's no way I could've finished it in that state. The game was a lot slower-paced and it just wasn't fun to play. By removing a lot of what I had and speeding up the pacing the game actually became a lot more fun.

Anyways, that's all for this first devblog if you will. My goals with these devblogs are to share my progress, raise awareness about my game, and improve my communication skills.

See you later!
